# Open Network For Digital Commerce
Goverment Project
The Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC) is a network that will link buyers, sellers, and other go-betweens through a fee-based gateway that ONDC established and will continue to manage to provide stakeholders with multi-layered exposure. It intends to democratize digital commerce by giving small sellers an equal playing field and giving customers a variety of options. This will be accomplished through an open network that is powered by open-source and accessible to everyone through their current platforms (App, Website, etc). In the ONDC system, the seller-side platform will be in charge of initially resolving consumer complaints. If unsatisfied, the consumer will have the choice to contact a third-party, network-verified online dispute resolution site.

We all have a lot of questions about ONDC, and very generic answers to what it’s all about. So let us keep aside all the jargon and understand ONDC from a layman’s perspective in simple terms.

In the simplest words, ONDC is the mother app of all shopping apps. Imagine an app that has the data of all types of commerce websites and that means not only shopping. Imagine a single app where you can not only view but compare prices from Flipkart, Amazon etc. for shopping, from Zomato and Swiggy for food, from Uber and Ola for cabs, and not just big sellers, but every seller who may be listed on ONDC through any participating platform. This means, for example, you can search for a mobile phone model, and compare prices and delivery time not only from Amazon, Flipkart etc. but let’s assume shopping apps that connect you to your neighbourhood stores like Kiko live are also plugged into the ONDC platform, then you could also compare prices from your neighbourhood mobile shop who can actually even deliver it to you in 15 minutes!

Hence, this truly democratizes the buying and selling process, buyers are not forced to buy from sellers promoted by large platforms, hence giving smaller players to get an equal footing, and buyers get the best deal, as they see comparisons from every seller possible. So yes, your neighbourhood seller may cost Rs.50 more, but you can choose to opt for him due to the quick delivery.

ONDC also brings together logistics providers, so theoretically, it is also possible to say buy from a shop listed on any one app without using their delivery service and opt for delivery using a different hyperlocal logistics provider, say Wefast. Overall, this is expected to drive a lot of business to small retailers, who were earlier unable to compete on large platforms. This will grow the hyperlocal business ecosystem, building more employment around the shops and deliveries. 

ONDC also upholds the data privacy of all buyers and sellers. Transaction data will reside only with the buyer and seller applications and will not be visible to ONDC. ONDC will not be storing or viewing transaction data.Policies around the exchange of this data will evolve and would be consent-based and bound by the limitation of purpose. ONDC will ensure data security and credibility at the transaction level. User’s Personally Identifiable Information (PII), as well as seller data critical to trade such as competitive data, will be protected from third-party access.

As far as buyer protection is concerned, ONDC also builds a complaints redressal system on top of the retail platform’s rectification system. Think of it as something like a Nodal officer in banking transactions. If you buy through an Amazon seller on ONDC and are not happy, you escalate to Amazon customer support. And if you are not satisfied, you can escalate it further by approaching a third-party online dispute resolution platform vetted by the network.

State Bank of India, Axis Bank, Punjab National Bank, ICICI, HDFC, Kotak Mahindra and IDFC First are said to have committed to investing in the ONDC network. The platform would allow the banks to drive the use of their cards, loans, and other services, some sources have indicated, however, this will become clearer in due course.

 “ONDC is anticipated to digitize the entire value chain, standardize operations, encourage supplier inclusion, increase logistical efficiency, and improve customer value.” The greatest thing about ONDC is that it will allow everyone to participate in the e-commerce boom, even the smallest sellers in the most rural areas of the nation. Additionally, there are some apps also that are uplifting the local sellers like Meesho, Kiko Live, etc. They support and empower small business owners in every way. Thus, a barrier won’t exist any longer. Anyone can ride the crest of this wave of advancement, bolstering and stimulating the economy even more.
